- in which level non-data securable objects are stored?
	- same level as catalogs
- what are volumes?
	- represent a logical volume of unstructured, non-tabular data in cloud object storage
		- allows governance over non-tabular datasets
		- provides capabilities for accessing, storing, governing and organizing files
	- volumes can either be managed
		- UC managing the full lifecycle and layout of the data in storage
	- or external
		- UC managing access to the data from within db
		- UC does not manage access to the data in cloud storage from other clients
- what is a table?
	- collection of data organized by rows and columns
	- managed or external
		- managed means UC manages the entire lifecycle of the table
		- external means UC manages access to data from within Databricks, but not managing access to the data in cloud storage from other clients
- what is a view?
	- saved queries against one or more tables
- what is a function?
	- units of saved logic that return a scalar value or set of rows
- what are models?
	- AI models packaged with MLFlow and registered in UC
- is working with db objects in UC different from working with db objects that are registered in a hive ms?
	- except the three level namespace, no difference
	- creating and using db objects is alike
	- we can manage db objects, manage permissions on database objects using catalog explorer UI
- What are other securable objects?
	- UC also governs access to data using the following securable objects:
		- storage creds
		- external locations
		- connections
		- clean rooms
		- shares
		- recipients
		- providers
- what is storage credentials?
	- encapsulates long-term cloud credential that provides access to cloud storage
- what are external locations?
	- contains reference to a storage credential and cloud storage path
	- external locations can be used to create external tables
	- external locations can be used to assign a managed storage location
		- for managed tables and volumes
- what are connections?
	- represents credentials that give read-only access to an external db in a db system like mySql using lakehouse federation
- what are clean rooms?
	- db managed env where participants can collaborate on projects without sharing underlying data with each other
- what are shares?
	- delta sharing objects that represent a read-only ***collection of data and AI assets*** that a data provider shares with one or more recipients
- what are recipients?
	- delta sharing objects which represent an entity that receives shares from a data provider
- what are providers?
	- delta sharing objects which represent an entity that shares data with a recipient