## Data Governance
- what is Data asset?
	- data product or dataset
- what is data(product) ownership?
	- even though responsibilities may be delegated, there must be a team or person owning the data
- What is data stewardship?
	- data stewardship involves assigning responsibility for the management of assets to specific individuals or teams
	- these teams ensure the data quality
	- in real estate, property manager is an equivalent
		- who is responsible to up keep the property
- Who are data consumers or users?
	- various individuals and business processes may consume the data, internal and external to the organization
	- tenants in the building
- what is data monetization?
	- leveraging data assets to generate revenue
	- by selling data to other organizations
	- in real estate, it can be renting the place
- what is a data contract?
	- formal agreement between data producer and consumer on the specifics of the data, including but not limited to
		- format
		- quality requirements
	- lease agreement in real estate
		- for what purpose the data can be used for
		- what can be or cannot be done with the data
- what is value quantification?
	- estimate the value associated with the asset
	- value of data depends on it's accuracy, relevance and accessibility
- what is data security and access control?
	- protection of data from unauthorized access, use or disclosure
- what is data architecture?
	- blue print of the property
	- in DA, design and structure of data storage and retrieval systems
	- architecture standards provide guidelines and best practices for how data assets are constructed
- what are data domains?
	- data can be divided into domains based on subject matter
	- each data domain has it's own characteristics, it's specific attributes and requirements
- what are data policies, standards and regulatory compliance?
	- rules for managing the data within the organization
	- these policies can be derived from applicable regulations such as those related to data privacy and protection
	- for example where the data can reside is a regulation passed by a governing body
	- what can be done or cannot be done with the data


https://medium.com/zs-associates/the-best-way-to-explain-data-governance-to-beginners-c3b7a8feec15